So we've been through the entire tutorial,
and
now you understand how to build Svelte
applications, and what Svelte can do.
And on the website, there is
an interactive repple that you can use to
build applications and components of your
own, and you can do quite a lot in here.
But ultimately at some point, you're gonna
wanna take the Svelte experience out of
the repple and onto your local machine.
And so this next section of the workshop
is gonna be about how to do exactly that,
and I'm gonna show you how
to do this from scratch.
Because that way,
you'll get the best possible understanding
of how Svelte actually fits into your
existing development workflow, and
then I'll show you an easy
way to do just that.
So I'm gonna go over to my terminal.
And I'm gonna create a new project,
just bear with me one second.
And then inside here, I'm just
gonna make a source directory.
And I'm gonna have these instructions
open on one half of the window while
I'm doing this so
that you can see what's happening.
Now for this project, we're gonna be
using Rollup to do our module bundling.
Rollup is a piece of software that can
take multiple JavaScript files and
combine them into a single file
suitable for serving to users.
And this is what we use in the default
project template right now.
We do also have an official web pack
loader and there's a bunch of community
plugins for using things like Parcels,
Snowpack, Vite, and so on.
And so it's possible that in future we'll
be using something like Snowpack or Vite.
Which are essentially
beneficiaries of the fact
that modules exist
natively in browsers now,
and we don't necessarily need to be
bundling everything all the time.
But for right now, we're gonna have to
bundle our application in order to use it.
So we're gonna install Rollup by
typing in npm i which is short for
install dash D which is short for
development.
And then the word rollup.
So that installed roll
up into our project, and
then we're gonna create
a Rollup config file.
It just looks like this, and
this config file is gonna expect to
find a file called source/main.js.
And it's gonna generate a file
called public/build/bundle.js,
that's gonna be the file that
gets loaded in the application.
So we need to create that
source/main.js entry point,
I'm just gonna paste this command in here.
And if you have this website open,
I encourage you to follow along.
So we've created some source files, we've
got a main.js, which imports our hello.js,
hello.js just exports
a function logs the word hello.
And now if we run Rollup,
we can see what it does.
It's gonna take that input file,
follow those inputs, and
generate a public/build/bundle.js.
And you can see that it's literally
just taking those two modules and
smush them together.
So now we just need to add an index.html
file to actually load that module,
and I'm just gonna copy
everything over from this page.
And then to serve this page,
I'm gonna install
a dependency called serve,
again, npm i -D serve.
And once that's done,
I can say npx serve public,
npx just allows you to use anything
that's installed locally in your project,
and it is now serving that
page on localhost 5000.
So go over there.
Okay, and if we open the console,
then we will see that it is indeed
logging the word hello, okay?
So that's all well and good,
like you now understand what Rollup does,
but we need to get Svelte in involved.
And Rollup itself doesn't understand
what a cell component is or does, so
we need to teach it,
we need to add a cell plugin for Rollup.
We also need to add a plugin that
will teach Rollup how to find
things inside your node modules folder.
So we're gonna install
two things over here,
we're gonna install
rollup-plugin-serve and
rollup/plugin-mode-resolve.
Right, and then we need to add those
plugins to our roller config,
I'm just gonna select this
whole lot and just paste it in.
And I spent a long time last
night trying to figure out how
to make a diff highlighted code blog into
something that you can copy and paste.
See if you can reverse and
engineer how it works.
Okay, so now that we've done that,
now that we've added those plugins,
we can add a Svelte component.
I'm gonna create source/app.svelte and
I'm gonna paste in some
basic content into that.
And then we wanna import that component
into our main.js, and instantiate
the component inside that, so I'm just
gonna replace everything with this.
And this is the client side Svelte
component API, app is just a regular
JavaScript class that you can
instantiate with the new keyword.
And it takes a bunch of options, target
is the only option that is required,
and the target in this case is
going to be the document body.
And we can also pass
a bunch of props which if
the app exports any props
which this one does,
it exports this name prop,
we'll get initialized to these values.
And the last thing that we need to do
is add a link to the new bundle.css
that is being generated here
from this part of the plugin.
We add that into our index
file, and get rid of that text
because that's no longer relevant.
And now if you've set everything
up correctly, when we run Rollup,
it's gonna find that Svelte module,
and turn it into JavaScript.
It looks like I haven't managed
to install, there we go.
Install the correct thing, run Rollup
[LAUGH] and I also need to install
Svelte itself because that doesn't
come included in the bundle.
So npm i -D svelte, This time,
third time's the charm,
npx rollup -c has created our bundle.
And so now when we do npx serve public,
it's gonna serve our Svelte
project on localhost 5000.
And you can see that indeed,
it is creating our application and
rendering it to document.body.
All right, so that's basically all that
is to it, the official template which
you can see at github.com/voltjs/template
is a little bit fancier.
It has live reloading,
it has a built-in development server, and
various other things
that are quite useful.
But in essence, that's all that it
takes to get a Svelte project up and
running, using Rollup